Release notes for 0.6.2 (#5313)
hyperledger-labs/splice: docs/src/release_notes.rst

.. _release_notes:

.. release-notes:: 0.6.2

    Note: 0.6.1 and 0.6.0 were skipped on TestNet and MainNet due to regressions uncovered on DevNet.

    - Scan app

        - Note that the following endpoints that have been deprecated are planned for removal

>           in the next release (0.6.3),  or the following one (0.6.4) at the latest:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          in the next release (0.6.3), or the following one (0.6.4) at the latest:
```

Reviewer: sorry such a nitpick to delete a space

          - ``/v0/closed-rounds``
          - ``/v0/top-validators-by-validator-faucets``
          - ``/v0/synchronizer-identities/{domain_id_prefix}``
          - ``/v0/synchronizer-bootstrapping-transactions/{domain_id_prefix}``
          - ``/v0/aggregated-rounds``
          - ``/v0/round-totals``
          - ``/v0/round-party-totals``
          - ``/v0/amulet-config-for-round``
          - ``/v0/round-of-latest-data``
          - ``/v0/rewards-collected``
          - ``/v0/top-providers-by-app-rewards``
          - ``/v0/top-validators-by-validator-rewards``
          - ``/v0/top-validators-by-purchased-traffic``
          - ``/v0/activities``
          - ``/v0/transactions``

    - SV / Validator apps

        - Hard Domain Migrations (HDMs) and HDM-based disaster recovery are no longer supported.
          In particular:

          - the validator configuration ``domain-migration-dump-path`` was removed,
          - the SV onboarding mode ``domain-migration`` (``name`` / ``dump-file-path``) was removed.

          Logical synchronizer upgrades (LSU) are now the only supported mechanism for
          protocol upgrades.

>         - Updated the documentation to clarify that the ``MIGRATION_ID`` will not change in the future and that all validators should keep the current value for the foreseeable future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Updated the documentation to clarify that the ``MIGRATION_ID`` will not change in the future and that all validators should keep the current value for the foreseeable future.
        - Updated the Logical Synchronizer Upgrade documentation to include details for Roll Forward LSUs used for disaster recovery.
        
```

          in synchronizer (sequencer/mediator/CometBFT) release names, DNS entries, DB names, chain IDs and port numbers. Participant naming and the participant DB name continue to use MIGRATION_ID, which is now frozen.
          All example YAML files and documentation have been updated to use ``SERIAL_ID`` for addressing and ``MIGRATION_ID`` for migration-specific configuration.
          For existing networks, ``SERIAL_ID`` must initially be set to the current value of ``MIGRATION_ID``.
          Newly initialized networks start with ``SERIAL_ID=0``.
          This also changed the name of the participant helm installation in the documentation, along with the ``participantAddress`` in ``sv-values.yaml``. You can either reinstall the helm chart with the new name or ensure the ``participantAddress`` reflects the name of your helm chart installation.

        - Fixed a regression introduced in 0.6.1 where the ``reloader.stakater.com/auto`` annotation was silently dropped from all Deployments rendered by the Splice helm charts, disabling the auto-reload behaviour regardless of the ``enableReloader`` value.

    - Canton

>         - Bugfixes

Reviewer 2: feels a bit too generic. In particular the bugfix for 0.6.1 seems worth specifying at least a little bit better.

Author: I could have guessed that you won't like it :) Attempt to make it slightly less generic without mentioning only this single fix; I'd 50:50 that you'll be happy *now* :crossed_fingers:

Author: And now I also pushed :v:

          in the next release (0.6.3), or the following one (0.6.4) at the latest:

          - ``/v0/closed-rounds``
          - ``/v0/top-validators-by-validator-faucets``
          - ``/v0/synchronizer-identities/{domain_id_prefix}``
          - ``/v0/synchronizer-bootstrapping-transactions/{domain_id_prefix}``
          - ``/v0/aggregated-rounds``
          - ``/v0/round-totals``
          - ``/v0/round-party-totals``
          - ``/v0/amulet-config-for-round``
          - ``/v0/round-of-latest-data``
          - ``/v0/rewards-collected``
          - ``/v0/top-providers-by-app-rewards``
          - ``/v0/top-validators-by-validator-rewards``
          - ``/v0/top-validators-by-purchased-traffic``
          - ``/v0/activities``
          - ``/v0/transactions``

    - SV / Validator apps

        - Hard Domain Migrations (HDMs) and HDM-based disaster recovery are no longer supported.
          In particular:

          - the validator configuration ``domain-migration-dump-path`` was removed,
          - the SV onboarding mode ``domain-migration`` (``name`` / ``dump-file-path``) was removed.

          Logical synchronizer upgrades (LSU) are now the only supported mechanism for

>           protocol upgrades.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
          protocol upgrades, and roll-forward the only supported mechanism for network-wide disaster recovery.
```

Author: ```suggestion
          protocol upgrades and network-wide disaster recovery.
```

Maybe simpler?

        - Updated the documentation to clarify that the ``MIGRATION_ID`` will not change in the future and that all validators should keep the current value for the foreseeable future.
        - Updated the Logical Synchronizer Upgrade documentation to include details for Roll Forward LSUs used for disaster recovery.
        

    - Deployment

        - SV only: Introduced the concept of **serial ID** alongside the existing **migration ID** for synchronizer deployment.

>           The migration ID is now frozen at its current value and is only used for the ``migration.id`` field in helm chart values.

Reviewer 3: This sentence does not make sense to me. The field in helm chart is not an actual usage, so "is only used for that" doesn't make sense. But I honestly am not sure what we meant to say here to propose something else. @moritzkiefer-da @nicu-da  can you help?

Author: @isegall-da Previously we used `MIGRATION_ID` for deriving all kinds of things - various names, port numbers. Now we don't use it anymore for these things; the only place you need to know it for is `migration.id`.

Not sure how to change this sentence so this is more clear; tbh the "usage" wording does make sense to me but I learned English from computer games and cartoons :shrug:

Reviewer 3: If I screw up and put a wrong number in the helm chart, what will break? The answer to that is where the value is "used". The helm chart by itself only copies it from one place to another.

Reviewer 3: In the past, that would have resulted in wrong port numbers for example, so the value was used to derive port numbers. I'm not sure where it is used now TBH.

Reviewer 3: (tbc, this is a nit, and you are free to ignore me, don't care about it that much to block anything)

Author: Ohh well then to pick the first thing that comes to mind, it is used for picking store identifiers. But that seems too much detail here? People just need to know where to configure this, no?

How about this then?

```suggestion
          The migration ID is now frozen at its current value and configured only once, as the ``migration.id`` field in helm chart values.
```

Author: > (tbc, this is a nit, and you are free to ignore me, don't care about it that much to block anything)

Oh, seeing this now :sweat_smile: Will just pick whatever sounds best to me tomorrow morning then :+1:

Reviewer 3: Your new phrasing satisfies my initial request, so you are even not ignoring me... Committing that one now.
